Let's make us a tool bit
ok what I'm doing is milling  away some of the high speed tool bits so it's a little easier for me to grind
I don't have a real narrow width grinding wheel so
I have to make something wide enough so I can get in there and grind
and use two inch wide grinding wheels
So I can get in and grind some relief on the inside
Here's what I milled away
Sp this is going to be the cutting end right here
I have to shape this a little bit more alright
I'm gonna give it a little bit of relief on the backside
because this is a half inch wide tool
my groove is half inch wide
plus you have to take into consideration the radius
So I'll have to relieve a little bit of this to clear inside there
I'll just do that right down here on the end
I did this so I can go
Like so
on the grinding wheel
This is where I do wish we had a  grinder with a one inch wide grinding wheel
for being able to do things like this
This allows me to come in here
Just so
and grind it
That inside edge see? Getting clearance
That's gonna give me enough
there to cut the groove anyway
The groove depth will be 111 to 113 thousandths deep
There's a little bit of radius in that corner from the wheel right there it's grinding
Looks like I've got enough angle clearance there
Now I can get a little bit of clearance this way
over here on the course wheel and remove some of it
Right there... the book actually says point 189
Okay so I'm gonna call that good right there
Basically 3 1/16ths
Now I do need to grind this front edge here too
This is your cutting edge
and that edge should be nice and square
And now just getting the bottom
I need to adjust this tool rest it's getting away from the wheel there.
Just about there
I need to check it
then put a little bit of relief on this back edge here
Alright so there's a little bit of the relief
to give me some clearance in the groove
I've got a little bit of wiggle room right there it's not gonna rub on the bottom of the tool
All I have left to do is some honing right there
I may come in here and give it some back relief.
Maybe grind the top of it.
Down
and help make a little better chip formation.
That's it.
Here's what I'm talking about
so we're gonna come in here like so
we'll get it in here and center it up and that's gonna go to the back
and we're gonna plunge in and cut an O-ring groove right there
so you can see why I had to give it a little clearance right here
I want to keep as much metal on as I can to keep it sturdy
This is gonna be choked up real close right here
O
I'm not gonna have it hanging way out like that.
I'm gonna have it sticking out just enough to get in here
and cut that, make it as rigid as I can
Alright, we're ready to get started on this O-ring groove right here
I've got everything set.
and ready to go.
our tool mount is in the tool post.
and I've already... let me just run this in here
close and I'll show you... we'll do it by hand
clearance here on the compound, something is always  ...
Important, before you turn anything on is to get things close
rotate it with your hand to make sure you're not going to jam the machine or crash it
so the other thing I've done too is I've squared the cutting face of the tool with the work
now one way I did it this time is I used my little lufkin square butt right here
alright
go in here and I've squared it up
and I put a flashlight underneath the tool
and looked at the light coming through the edge right there
alright and I've got it pretty well squared up good enough for what we're doing here
it's probably not zero zero if you were to dial that face in right there but it's really really close
alright
I've got my depth
not the depth but
we're gonna come up in here
I've already touched the back
and set a zero basically to where I know where I'm going to come in there and cut it
so what I've got to do is touch off on the diameter
set a zero then plunge in
and here's one more thing I'll show you
I usually write on the compound quite a bit
That's how wide the tool is
after I finish honing it
it's 187 which is right on what we want
3/16ths tool
And then this is the depth
So it's going 111 to 113 per side
okay that's the depth of the groove actually
is that...that's going to be 222 on the dial once I zero here
if I go 222 it'll make that depth right there
okay
that's the proper depth for this
zero one two I think it is a 2 series O-ring that I'm cutting
So, let's go ahead and let's get started.
I'm probably going to use the cool mist
on this to try to try to help with keeping the tool cool
also less smoke maybe a little easier to watch on video
want to establish a zero
where we start making our cut
run it in there and once I touch I'm just going to stop the spindle here.
Alright that looks pretty square
alright that should be our zero point
ain't going to hurt that high speed by shutting it off like that
zero the dial zero the read out
alright
and let's try to get this going
see how that works right there
alright here we go
just hand feeding
I'm not trying to go to aggressive just feeling the tool
as it's going in
Looks like I'm getting a little bit of chatter
we may have to slow it down
but so far it's doing pretty good
that chatter is probably from that little bit of tool hanging out that's why I'm saying try to
keep it as tight as you can get it
look at the chips binding up in there
I'm going to go ahead and stop that
there's really no where for them to go
hee hee hee
Tools cutting very good it feels very free cutting
alright that's half our depth right there, so where half way there
a little bit more aggressive on the tool bit... I mean the pressure I'm sorry
And I hope you guys can see this good, it looks pretty good from my end
ok there's 210 on the dial we've got another 12
There's 220
alrighty
that's going to be it right there I'm going to let it kinda scrape in just a bit
alright 222 on the dial
back it out
okay
there we go
let me go get and O-righ
and we'll stick it on there and see
ok here's our O-ring 256 actually this is the right size O-ring but it's the incorrect type
the byton O-rings go on here but I didn't have the right size in bytons
but this is a 256 this is the same size
damn, there you go
there's your tube seal right there
so the tube seal for the barrel the bore or whatever
gets pushed onto here
and this O-ring is what seals the hydraulic pressure from coming through the tube and out to the outside
this is a very very common type with this type, tie rod type cylinder
sometimes they are in the face there which I actually like better
because whenever these get damaged it usually pushes those lips in
If they get trash or something in there it comes off and it starts hammering it
these are a little more difficult to fix
I have to fix them like I did by cutting them with a tool bit
sometimes we have to go and weld them up
I actually like the face grooves more than I like this style here but
they both work good and I'm just replicating what I've got to make right here
I do need to come in here with a tool bit and put a little bit of a chamfer a lead in angle to help align the barrel when it goes on
but other than that we'll chamfer this outside edge and do both of these and this side will be done
I figure since we're on the subject we'll go ahead and talk about it.
this is a bytono ring it's also called fluorocarbon that:s what it is it's a fluorocarbon
this is a regular buno O-ring right here
the byton fluorocarbon style is for higher heat
it'll withstand more heat
than the regular buno style O-ring
so some applications require a fluorocarbon seal or O-ring to go in
the piston seals I'm sorry the glan and the piston seals are also fluorocarbon
so I just wanted to shwo the difference so this was a 256 O-ring number size
it's a standard size number 256 and then the
fluorocarbon or byton is going to be... I just had it
I just lost it off the top of my head
okay, heh, 568 so this would be a 568 dash 256
so if you wanted a flourocarbon 568 dash then whatever the size is and that will get you a bython
we're going to put this around... get it chucked up
make sure all of our jaws are clean I've already cleaned this off
just wiped with my fingers to make sure there's no grit or dust there
same thing with the part
make sure it's clean... stick it right back in here
just holding pressure against it
now I'll seat these I want to make sure the part is seated good against the jaws
you can kinda hear it  it's sort of a feel and hear
where ever it seems solid it sounds solid
but you don't want to hit it... continue to hit it too hard
because you'll get bounce back, the part will hit the jaw and bounce back
you don't want it to do that you want it to stay solid against the jaw
Abom is a machining god... Hahaha...
Hey, I'm just showing you what Paul taught me
Paul taught me how to do all this
He loves to cut iron
Okay so we're gonna use the spirit 67 with attachment
we're going to use this to indicate the bore
there's a half a thousand right there
we"ll go to our low
so on your od you're doing the opposite of what you usually see me do or what I say
you're loosing your lows... I'm sorry, you're tightening your lows and lessening  your highs
that's a tenth right there very very close
You know, whenever I hear guys like John Grimsmod talking about wanting to hold a tent on his laths when he's making screws
or little parts for his knives
I feel like this is my perfection right here
whenever I'm indicating something
and I'm not saying I'm perfect by no means but in my mind I hate seeing that needle move
so I'm always trying to tweak it to get it completely out
which is really tricky
so even though I'm indicated in there I'm seeing that move one or two tenths and I'm like mmm can I get that out?
I think I can, so I come back around here, I can barely feel this jaw move
and I think I got it within a tenth closer
We;"re going to call that good
We're gonna go ahead and finish our thickness which calls for 2 inch 960
we"re at about... 993 or so
around there so we've got about 30 thousandths a little over that
I'll go ahead an get :er started
we'll make a cut
Get in here and touch off, make a little pass then mic it
so we'll go a half or 15 and we'll mic it
That face thickness is not critical by the way
Just a target size of what the old one was
ok so 9 seventy three right there
this will tell you if you're square or not, usually off one or two
about 973 a tenth or two
there we go there's about 975 or so we're about 2,000ths out of square
975 we"ll just dial in 13 we'll call it good
I'm running a faster feed rate this time
That"s helping make that chip curl over instead of curl up into wads
clean your tools off when you're through
Okay our next stop is going to be 5 inch diameter about 7/8ths deep counter bore on this side here
already got my depth set time to touch the tool off
I'm down to my last 60 thou or so
gotta come out of here so we're gonna use our telescoping gauges
and a mic
be around 15 16ths
at 9 38 and a half
so what I'll do is split it in half so that's basically giving us 60 thousandths
So I'll do thirty and thirty or thirty then mic it
take whatever is left
That's going to be a pretty precision fit
That"s part of the rod glan seals right there
ten... twenty... thirty... and I got my speed rate slowed down
let's see what we got
that 69 and a half so that's going to give us 30 and a half thou I need to make that a little bit over
I'm going to shoot for 2 thousandths over that
So it''ll be 32 and a half thou
always double check yourself, make sure you've got your measurement correct
and compare
I get the same thing
Soooo
ten... twenty... thirty  one two and a half
So as I come up to this space
I go in 5 thousandths that will bring it to 875
And I'll just space it back by hand
I'm seeing there I am about one or two tenths under
alright so... 71 and 9 tenths
I think we're close enough
I'm within a John Grimsmo area
I'm within the John Grimsmo tolerance should I say
We're going to do a nice bevel for the O-ring to slide  inside this counter bore
Use a threading tool there so that gives approximately a thirty degree angle there
Alright then we'll use a boring bar to chamfer that other inside shoulder
The lathes works done
all we've got left is the four holes for the tie rods then we got one hole is going to be for our port
I was going to finish off this edge, the facing kind of sharpened it.
Just going to use the file
the corners
okay
There we go